docs(js): Rewrite Angular documentation and add TryCatch options (#1695)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/platforms/javascript/angular.md

---

<!-- WIZARD -->

> On its own, `@sentry/browser` will report any uncaught exceptions triggered from your application. Additionally, `@sentry/browser` can be configured to catch any Angular-specific exceptions reported through the [@angular/core/ErrorHandler](https://angular.io/api/core/ErrorHandler) component. This is also a great opportunity to collect user feedback by using `Sentry.showReportDialog`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On its own, `@sentry/browser` will report any uncaught exceptions triggered from your application. Additionally, you can configure `@sentry/browser` to catch any Angular-specific exceptions reported through the [@angular/core/ErrorHandler](https://angular.io/api/core/ErrorHandler) component. This is also a great opportunity to collect user feedback by using `Sentry.showReportDialog`.
```

npm install @sentry/browser
```

> Then initialize new Sentry instance and configure Angular with `ErrorHandler` provided and explained below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then initialize a new Sentry instance and configure Angular with the `ErrorHandler` provided and explained below:
```

```typescript
import { BrowserModule } from "@angular/platform-browser";
import { NgModule, ErrorHandler, Injectable } from "@angular/core";
import { HttpErrorResponse } from "@angular/common/http";

import { environment } from "../environments/environment";
import { AppComponent } from "./app.component";

import * as Sentry from "@sentry/browser";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
  // TryCatch has to be configured to disable XMLHttpRequest wrapping, as we are going to handle

>   // http module exceptions manually in Angular's ErrorHandler and we don't want it to capture same error twice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // http module exceptions manually in Angular's ErrorHandler and we don't want it to capture the same error twice.
```

>   // Please note that TryCatch configuration requires at least @sentry/browser v5.16.0.

Reviewer 2: 💯

  integrations: [new Sentry.Integrations.TryCatch({
    XMLHttpRequest: false,
  })],
});

@Injectable()
export class SentryErrorHandler implements ErrorHandler {
  constructor() {}

  extractError(error) {
    // Try to unwrap zone.js error.
    // https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/core/src/util/errors.ts
    if (error && error.ngOriginalError) {
      error = error.ngOriginalError;
    }

    // We can handle messages and Error objects directly.
    if (typeof error === "string" || error instanceof Error) {
      return error;
    }

    // If it's http module error, extract as much information from it as we can.

>     if (error instanceof HttpErrorResponse) {

Reviewer 2: This is great. Have helped people do this piecemeal from time to time, but so much better to have it documented with a tested solution. 🎉

>       // `error` property of http exception can be either `Error` which we can use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // The `error` property of http exception can be either an `Error` object, which we can use directly...
```

      if (error.error instanceof Error) {
        return error.error;
      }

>       // `ErrorEvent` which can provide us with the message but no stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // ... or an`ErrorEvent`, which can provide us with the message but no stack...
```

      if (error.error instanceof ErrorEvent) {
        return error.error.message;
      }

>       // Or the request body itself, which we can use as a message instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // ...or the request body itself, which we can use as a message instead.
```

      if (typeof error.error === "string") {
        return `Server returned code ${error.status} with body "${error.error}"`;
      }

      // If we don't have any detailed information, fallback to the request message itself.
      return error.message;
    }

    // Skip if there's no error, and let user decide what to do with it.
    return null;
  }

  handleError(error) {
    let extractedError = this.extractError(error) || "Handled unknown error";

    // Capture handled exception and send it to Sentry.
    const eventId = Sentry.captureException(extractedError);
    
    // When in development mode, log the error to console for immediate feedback.
    if (!environment.production) {
      console.error(extractedError);

>     }

Reviewer 2: If I'm reading this right, we're not actually skipping reporting, we're just reporting that we got something we didn't know how to deal with (`Handled unknown error`). In that case, can we attach the thing we did get as `extra`, for debugging purposes?

Could we do something like this? (GH won't let me put it as a suggestion, so for the purposes of reasonable syntax highlighting I've copied the whole class an elided parts I didn't change.)

```typescript
export class SentryErrorHandler implements ErrorHandler {
  constructor() {}

  extractError(error) {
    // ...

    // Nothing meaningful to extract from any of the standard spots
    // Handle this case in `handleError()`
    return null;
  }

  handleError(error) {
    // Attempt to extract an Error object or a message
    let extractedError = this.extractError(error);

    // Send error to Sentry
    let eventId;
    if (extractedError) {
      eventId = Sentry.captureException(extractedError);
    } 
    else {
      // If we weren't able to extract data from the usual spots, attach the
      // originally-captured object as `extra` for debugging purposes
      Sentry.withScope((scope) => {
        scope.setExtra("capturedError", JSON.stringify(error));
      });
      eventId = Sentry.captureException("Handled unknown error");
    }

    // When in development mode, log the error to console for immediate feedback.
    if (!environment.production) {
      console.error(
        extractedError || `Handled unknown error: ${JSON.stringify(error)}`
      );
    }

    // ...
  }
}
```

Author: Oh, this case happens only if `error` is `undefined`, which is pointless to provide in extras. I have no idea how this can happen, but it happened to me once 😅

Reviewer 2: What if they end up with some custom error class which doesn't inherit from `Error`? IDK how Angular works - could something like that end up coming through this path, or no?

Author: I don't think so, Angular errors all inherit. If someone hacks it and provides something that we don't support (I dont believe it'll ever happen), then they just need to update their code. The docs should stay generic imo.

Reviewer 2: 👍🏻

export class AppModule {}
```

When using your own `ErrorHandler`, make sure that whenever you use `HttpInterceptor` alongside it,

> it doesn't modify the error captured originally.

Reviewer 2: > it doesn't modify the error captured originally.

I'm not 100% clear here if "it" is the custom error handler or the http interceptor. Can we specify which one?

Author: Updated

> it doesn't modify the error captured originally.

Author: ```suggestion
the interceptor doesn't modify the error captured originally.
```

> The same goes for writing your own API Services with built-in `http` methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same goes for writing your own API services with built-in `http` methods.
```

(Unless `API Services` is a "thing" in the whole-concept, proper noun sense.)

> For example, the service below make it impossible for the SDK to extract correct value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the service below makes it impossible for the SDK to extract the correct value.
```

Reviewer 2: And here, @MimiDumpling.

(Sorry, this is probably wicked confusing, since I'm working my way up rather than down...)

> The reason being that it's not passed down the error pipeline in it's entirety, but returning `error` property of the original instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason being that it's not passed down the error pipeline in its entirety, but returning `error` property of the original instead.
```

Reviewer 2: Same deal here, @MimiDumpling  - incorporating your fix into my larger suggestion and resolving.

> For example, the service below make it impossible for the SDK to extract correct value.
> The reason being that it's not passed down the error pipeline in it's entirety, but returning `error` property of the original instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the service below makes it impossible for the SDK to extract the correct data, because the full, original error `e` is not propagated.
```

```js
export class ApiService {
  constructor(http) {
    this.http = http;
  }

  formatErrors(e) {
    console.log('Captured service error');
    return throwError(e.error);
  }

  get(path) {
    return this.http
      .get(path)
      .pipe(catchError(this.formatErrors));
  }
}
```

> Instead, make sure that you always rethrow or pass-down directly original error, eg.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, make sure that you always rethrow or pass-down directly the original error. For example:
```

Reviewer 2: @MimiDumpling - LOL, we edited the same sentence. Incorporated your edits into my suggestion so GH doesn't get confused, and am going to resolve this conversation.

> Instead, make sure that you always rethrow or pass-down directly original error, eg.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, make sure that you always rethrow or directly pass the original error, eg.:
```
